December 12, 2022
Today I worked on creating a review component and having it re-render to the view all reviews page after review submission. I also worked on my other unit test, creating a request, and was able to get that to pass as well. I went through all the components I created to make sure everything worked in the front-end and did minor CSS adjustments to make it more presentable. I went through the entire website and thought about potential CSS changes that could be made during the stretch goal. For now, the only change I made was capitalizing the navigation bar. Lastly, I went through the README and made some changes along with adding more detail to it.

December 9, 2022
Today I worked on getting the comments to POST and refresh automatically while directing to the comments page view. My goal was to have the user
be able to view all the comments, have a button to add a comment and when they press add, it will bring them back to the view all comments page with their comment already loaded there. After some tries, I was finally able to get this working by setting useStates, useEffect and functions together. After working on some css to adjust my comments and request page on how it should look, I moved on to creating components for reviews. I was able to get see a review on a venue to work successfully and next Monday, I will work on creating a review. My goal is to have the reviews also be able to refresh automatically once a new review is made just like the comments. In addition, with the help of Rosario I was also able to write and get my request test to pass.

December 8, 2022
Today I focused on getting some css and styling done for my request and comment components. I spent a good portion of the morning looking at examples and researching for ideas. There were some ideas that I really liked and tried to implement. However, it was extremely difficult trying to keep what I like, removing what I didn't and implementing my own changes in JSX. The CSS files were also overly complicated and too hard to change as all the css classes were set and any changes to the code will mess it up. I reverted back to using bootstrap but used the html version instead. When I tried to implement the modals, it was also a lot more complicated than it should have been. I consulted Muhammad and he used the react bootstrap. After switching to the react bootstrap for modals, the process of mapping over models and getting it to work was quick and efficient. I played around with the css more and made changes to my request page and comment modals. Overall, its a pretty simple page but am extremely content with how everything turned out.

December 7, 2022
I spent the majority of the day creating a component that is able to show all the comments. I planned on nesting the show all comments component for a particular request (by id) in the request list component. I struggled a bit with fetching the data because I kept messing up on the string interpolation in my url. I understood that I was passing in request as my props so I console.log all my variables to see what it was holding. This helped me figure out what I was doing wrong. Once I got my comments to show, I started on some css for my request/comments page. My ideal product is to have all my request show and have the comments nested in the request container.

December 6, 2022
After a long day of struggling to get my creating a request in the frontend to work with the invalid token error I finally managed to have POST working. I did a lot of trial and error with my code and had to do a lot of researching and re-reading of the explorations in learn on FastAPI authentication. I realized that I was missing the token in how I was trying to retrieve it and fixed it after a lot of console.log statements. I also had to go back to the fastAPI backend to make sure that everything lined up to exactly how a POST request should have. I was able to successfully see my newly made post show up in my list and also got the button to link from the list to creating a new request working too. I played around with the CSS a bit and realized that I wasn't able to scroll to the bottom of my list so I added a scroll to our CSS. During this process, I realized that all of our CSS is in the Nav.css of which needs to be broken up into their individual components.

December 5, 2022
Today was a pretty productive day for me. I got get all requests to show in the frontend. Currently using cards from bootstrap to show the request and the username that made it. Will try to see if I can get the time of the request created to show on the card footer tomorrow. I also linked a create a request button in the request page so that it can direct users to the create a new request page. So far, the link doesn't bring it to the page and I am still working on it. For the create a new request page, every time I attempt to create a new request, there is a 404 error stating that the token is invalid even though I am logged in. I plan on looking over this more in depth tomorrow to see if I can fix the issues.

December 2, 2022
Started to work on the react component for my create requests. I was reviewing more on React and trying to figure out what went wrong because I kept getting an error whenever I tried to post from my react frontend to the fast API backend. Unfortunately, my car was hit in the later afternoon so I had to deal with calling and waiting on the police and filing for insurance. That was pretty stressful so, for the rest of the day I tried to catch up with the team. Over the weekend, Muhammad made changes that allows us to directly create a post without having to grab the user_id from redux so I made some changes to get all for my requests. In addition, I also started to work on fixing pipeline issues.

December 1, 2022
Today I started working on the react page to show all of the requests. During our stand up I was able to gain a better understanding of how all components will work together. Muhammad will be working on the Redux for accounts which will be put in a store. For all my requests, there will be a user associated to who made the request of which I can get from the stored id's of the specific user. Later today, I encountered a complicated merge conflict issue that I was struggling to resolve due to my overly stashed files I had uncommitted. At the end, I still couldn't merge my commits to main and had to make a new branch off main to begin with.

November 30, 2022
Today I worked on fixing the CORS issue I had by adding the origin and CORS middleware in main.py. I started reviewing React Hooks and Redux to get an understanding of the difference and which one I should be using. For now, I started the create request page using React Hooks.

November 29, 2022
Today I reviewed my navbar with Rosario and showed him how to input the bootstrap stylesheet. I spent the rest of the day learning React hooks. I got started on my create a request component and will continue to work on it tomorrow. I did get a CORS issue and will try to fix it tomorrow.

November 28, 2022
Today I worked on getting all of comments to show up. I pair programmed with Muhammad and he was able to help me debug on what the issues were. Afterwards I retested my request and comments endpoints to make sure it all works. Afterwards, I moved onto starting the react frontend. Rosario and I were getting started on the react and we split up the work with him creating the main page while I worked on the navbar using bootstrap. I plan on reviewing react Hooks and functional components before I start on my components tomorrow.

November 23, 2022
Today I worked on adding the innerjoin for requests and comments. After adding the innerjoins I had some issue with creating and getting all of my requests to show up. I pair programmed with Muhammad to debug my issues and got both of the create and get all to work. I tried implementing the innerjoins for my comments as well. The create comment worked out fine. However, I am still struggling to have all my comments to show up because there is a comments id for each comment but the comment is correlated with a particular request with an id. My goal is to get all my comments to show up for the single request post by the id of which still needs to be worked on.

November 22, 2022
Today I worked on finishing up my comments queries and routers. After our stand up with the group, we mapped out all the endpoints and talked about it. This was helpful for me to see what correlations I needed to make. For instance, every comment goes on one request so I made sure to get add that to the api endpoints. I cleaned up my code for requests and tested to make sure that all of comments worked. For tomorrow, I will work on adding the Innerjoin of the tables of which I forgot to do for today.

November 21, 2022
Today I worked on: the requests queries and models. Once I was done with the requests queries and routers, I was ready to test the endpoints. For my request endpoints it was associated with a specific account so I waited on Muhammad to finish them. In the meantime, I started on the comments queries and routers. Once the accounts endpoints worked successfully, I was able to test out my requests. At first I had issues with the "created_at" dates in RequestIn and RequestOut since it was automatically defaulted. After I fixed that I struggled with a 400 error on creating a request. Even though creating the request worked and the RequestOut was just how it should have been I was constantly getting a response = 400. After a long struggle I realized that it was because the response.status.code was set to 400 but I was able to end the night with all my request endpoints working!

November 18, 2022
Today the team decided that we will be using Postgres. We worked on reverting the models, docker yaml files and the databases back to the previous working ones we had with Postgres. After some issues with the yaml file, we fixed and tested to make sure that the docker was running. We all split up the work on creating the queries and routers file for the different models. I am currently working on the requests queries file.

November 17, 2022
Today we have decided that we are going to use MONGODB as our database. We fixed the yaml file to update it with the MONGODB database and recreated the models.py. During this time, our group split up on starting the queries and routers for the models. I started working on the accounts model as it was similar to the library one given to us in class since we wanted to differentiate different roles and responsibilities. Afterwards, I worked on queries and routers files for comments and requests. I was still adjusting and learning MongoDB so there were many parts of the code I still didn't completely understand. However, upon discussion, our group is most likely going to revert our database back to PostgreSQL.

November 16, 2022
We started off stand up today going over trello and how we will use it to keep track of our developments and bugs that needs to be worked on. We decided with the help of Dalonte that we will just have two microservices: the frontend react and backend database. For our database, we first mapped out the models on Excalidraw and divided the creation of the tables using postgres SQL. We will review MongoDB's exploration tonight to see whether Postgres or MongoDB is more suitable for our project.

November 15, 2022
Today I created the Docker yaml file, relational-data directory and the fastAPI directory for the accounts. I was able to run the docker container with ports and pgAdmin successfully. Tomorrow during stand up I will share the updates with the team and discuss how many databases and microservices we would like to have.

November 14, 2022
Today we spent time reviewing the FastAPI and database explorations to solidify our understanding. I am re-reading and following along the exploration tutorial again to better my understanding of fastAPI. We will continue to work on our endpoints and think of how we can apply fastAPI to our project. I look forwards to start coding and building our project after the lecture on fastAPI tomorrow!
