12/12
I finished the trending and explore pages. I really want to convert the GET requests that those pages use, or at least the explore page, into Redux so that a user can submit a city and state into the home search bar and get all the venues for that location. I did struggle with the filtering venues feature that takes a category and filters all the venues that were grabbed by their location. I may have to get the route to also take in a category to handle it easily, but the tradeoff is that users may have to go category by category to find a venue. There must be a simpler way to filter locally. Additionally, I hid the POST functionalities on the frontend based on whether an access token is present. There's a lot left to add, but the core functionalities are complete.

12/9
The admin functions are complete. I converted Lena's create request into a modal. I will now focus on finishing the search functions and writing the test for accounts. Honestly, I'm just focusing on functionality more so than how the page looks. I still feel annoyed about CSS and how everything looks to the eye. I do want to try to get photo uploads up and running right after.

12/8
I still have the 3 modals left for admin. Once that's done, I'm going to try and consolidate them under one admin component. Currently, the Navbar has a categories component and an unapproved venues component. I'll look at what does done in the trucks demo to see how I can split them in one component. I LOVE Redux. Now that the fetch logic is complete, all I have left for this is building the modals with putting in the forms. I'm still a little hazy on passing in props, but Lena had hers working so I may ask her. Once that's done, I'll move on to implementing the city, state searches on the explore and local reviews pages.

12/7
Spent today converting all the fetch logic in the admin components into Redux functions. I can't lie: using Redux is fun. The fact that I can quickly set up the headers just once and not have to worry about additional lines of code that could break really helps. Storing all the logic inside a store definitely helps with pinpointing issues and the isLoading tag that comes with query usage is cool as heck. I'm probably going to use all of what I learned into building out the remaining searches with city and state. Apparently, that's been haunting Rosario, who consulted a bunch of other cohort mates to tackle it. Sounds like a fun challenge if you ask me!

12/6
Pretty much done with the actual functionality of listing categories and unapproved venues. Currently working on the modals. Honestly, it looks atrocious but CSS really is difficult for me. I'm happy that the actual React work is functioning properly. I'm also thinking that it would be nice if we could convert the fetches for reviews and venues using the location into Redux functions. The idea is that, the Redux stores the user submitted city and state. Then it grabs the reviews and venues associated. Every time the user submits a new location, then the two GET requests are handled again.

12/5
Very slow day. I did a nose dive to understand more CSS using Bootstrap by watching Youtube videos. I still believe that API development will be the way forward for me. I also took a look at passing props into nested components. In our case, it is passing the id values of cards to two nested modal buttons. Basically, the id will be used by the modal to identify what venue to update or delete. I would be a good idea to also pass in more properties of submitted, unapproved venues into that update modal, so that the admin can see what was submitted before fixing any possible issues.

12/2
Got a lot done today. Sign up on the frontend works, Gravatar is integrated, locked down all post routes for authenticated users, locked down admin routes for deletes and updates, got admin accounts to work, and started on the admin dashboard. I also cleaned up a lot of code, and made the authenticator grab the user id to store creator ids instead of having to grab it on the frontend through Redux. Now, Redux will only be required once more for when we implement the follower system. I also found two viable options for image hosting: UploadCare and Upload.io. The former seems easier to implement with a limit of 3GB. Feeling a little burnt out, but I love doing this work. I also remembered how much I despised CSS. Working to make items align and not go all over the place is actually more frustrating than all of Django, FastAPI, SQL, React, AND Redux. Do people actually like doing design??????

12/1
Still a lil dizzy, but I was able to get login and logout on the frontend to work with Redux. It should be easy to grab the current user id by using the get token query, and grabbing the id from the account tag. I'm still not 100% sure what the code from the documentation is doing, but I'll let the code marinate in my mind for a little longer. This is like with Django, when I didn't know what was going on until I kept seeing the code until it got bland and made sense. I definitely understand how people get nauseous looking at a lot of code. I felt like this in the morning as well. One issue right now is that the logout button only comes after you refresh the page after logging in. This needs to be fixed. Next up, I'll be working on the sign up modal.

11/30
I had a really bad headache after doing two online assessments. I'm still going through the Redux tutorials and  trying to absorb the information I need. I added a login required property to most of the create functionalities for venues, reviews, and requests. It's commented out until Redux fully works. I will have to figure out how to check if current user is an admin, which may be similar to how it was done in the library project example. Instead of checking roles, it will check if is_admin is true. We may have to force in admin accounts through via SQL, because there is currently no way to make an admin account.

11/29
I spent the bulk of today watching tutorials on frontend authentication and other use cases of Redux. I ran a few changes in the Account queries, where I removed the hashed_password property by using a new BaseModel that's solely used by users to find other users. The AccountOut's purpose is now only to be used by an authenticated user to get their own information, which will be stored in the Redux state. I also need to take a look into how accounts will be fetched on the frontend for users to see other users. This may overwhelm a user's resources when there are a lot of accounts in our application.

11/28
I spent the bulk of today pair programming with Rosario, Lena, and Sarah. I was able to help Rosario and Lena get their final touches of their endpoints done and they have started on the frontend. Currently, I'm reading up on Redux and thinking of how we can incorporate the global state to hold the authentication tokens and logged in user information. Once this is solved, I will then start locking down certain endpoint access to either all authenticated users or those who are admin. This should be the most difficult part of the project yet, but I'm eager to learn as I go.

11/23
Today, I did some pair programming with Sarah and Lena. They were having issues with their create and get_all functions. I was able to debug with them and show them how you need to create new Base Models with Pydantic in order to make the validation pass. Good way for me to reinforce my own skills and lead. I started reading up on Redux and how we will have to store the current user's token and information persistently. That information will help us to lock down posting ability to just authenticated users. Tomorrow, I will take a deep dive into all the routes and queries we have, so that I can quickly see what can be done in preparation for the frontend work. Better to have more endpoints ready than to come to the frontend and realize we're missing something.

11/22
Today, I tried to implement a keyword search for people's usernames. Basically, I want other users to be able to send a string and if any username matches the letters of that string, they should pop up. Tried multiple ways, but it just doesn't work with a placeholder. Might have to scrap it in place of a get_all_users function. However, that is very lame, so I'll try to consult Riley on it. I also did some pair programming with Rosario to help him with get_all_venues and create_venues. I implemented the join table functionality for the get query, and it can easily be understood and translated for other get requests for venues and even reviews. Good learning experience for the whole team. This is actually fun to do.

11/21
Forgot to do my journal. This day was very tiring. Figuring out how Auth would work for the parameters our accounts take in was difficult. The way that it is currently set up, hashed passwords also leak out in the GET requests for accounts. This could be a major security issue in the real world. However, I will consider this a success nonetheless that will be fixed in a future update after the MVP is done. Perhaps, I will create an Account class on top of AccountIn and AccountOut that will be used to retrieve account information. I say that this is a security issue because users should be able to find other users and even though they won't see the hashed passwords in the frontend screen, a crafty hacker may figure out the exploit. Currently leaving this fix for later.

11/18
WE MADE SO MUCH PROGRESS TODAY!!! I was able to quickly recover all the work we did and translate it into Postgres. I made all the tables and got started on the accounts routers and queries. We're dividing up accounts/venues/reviews/requests each for one person. I'm really starting to get the hang of writing FastAPI code. I really do miss using Django, but we gotta work with what we have. I do think I need to take it easy more. What I'm understanding though, we will have to make some complex queries and routes to satisfy the requirements of our project. Since it's a mini social media app that attempts to be a simpler version of Yelp, we have to process a lot of data. For example: getting a list of users by simply grab every user is not feasible. But doing a query of a substring that contains the characters in the username significantly reduces the search results and lightens how many records are sent back to the user from the backend. Large data going back and forth = BAD! Well, I may be thinking too deeply about this, but getting more acquainted with the idea of scalability only makes my understanding of the big picture better. I also remember that I was on such a roll today, that I forget to make regular commits throughout the day. Have to remind myself to make commits after every major file change.

11/17
I may have royally messed up by making the call to use MongoDB instead of PostgreSQL. I thought that using DBRef to act as pseudo foreign keys would be simple to manage. I also believed that directly adding some accounts with admin roles and other items such as categories, states, venues, and reviews at the initialization of the database (like what was done in the Books Library demo) would be simple. Alas, after extensive reading, I learned that such lookups to find the ObjectIds that reference items (example: a Venue holding a an ObjectId for as a category_id property where that category with the ObjectId is 'nightclub') is very taxing. As it stands, we most likely have to go back to the Postgres setup. As I'm the one who recommended to use Mongo, I will take the time to quickly get back the changes and incorporate all the models. It was very frustrating to learn this, and I feel like I'm very lost. Nonetheless, I will keep forging ahead. I plan on making a separate branch that will incorporate this massive change and have it looked at before we even think about connecting it to the main branch. There's so many unknowns and I can't lie: I'm terrified.

11/16
Today we started our Postgresql database and its tables. We were able to break down all the entities we have identified by far. It seems that a lot of tables are required to show complex relationships such as likes and follows. Based on my readings of implementations done by others, having separate tables for these actions that can be done to multiple items (reviews to be liked and users to be followed) makes the data compliant to RDBMS standards. We are wary about how this works with user accounts where there are two roles: admin and standard user. We will consult Riley in the morning. We have also identified two possible venue address validating APIs, YAddress (requires simple JSON) and the USPS Address Validator (requires complex XML). I believe YAddress simplifies most of the work in a easy to code fashion, but has up to 1000 free requests.

11/15
We're getting a better understanding of what tables our data will rely on. We are considering using the accounts feature as part of the main backend microservice instead of polling AccountVOs from a separate accounts microservice. The issue is understanding how we can assign users to their account profiles. We plan on going through more of the explorations, especially on authentication, and look into the Books demo project to see how accounts and roles were implemented.

11/14
Today we worked on finishing up the exploration on databases and FastAPI.
We have a solid understanding of what core features our application rely on.
We will continue to brush up on FastAPI in preparation for beginning our code
tomorrow. I really look forward to seeing how we break down our accounts microservice.
